
<div class="panel panel-primary">

    <div class="panel-heading">
        <div style="text-align: center">
            <h4>Creating and Making Man</h4>
        </div>
        <div style="text-align: center">
            <h6>EOM Ida Mingle</h6>
        </div>
    </div>

    <div class="panel-body">

        <div class="row">

            <div class="col-xs-12">

                <p class="text">
                    Man is created in the image and likeness of
                    God, meaning that God as Male-Female Principle of Being idealized
                    Itself as a state of being, this being revealing itself as Man
                    when he is made. God both creates and makes in Principle, but in
                    order to form what has been created and made, man must also
                    create and make. The operation of this Law has been operative the
                    last century, though the making of Man is still going on, it
                    including the making of a new spirit and a new body, as well as a
                    new planetary environment. The creating and making of Man involve
                    the proper relation of the spiritual and the physical.
                </p>

                <p align="center" class="textsubtitle">
                    The Creation of Man
                </p>

                <p class="text">
                    The creation of Man is usually associated with
                    God and the making of Man with man. This is not the absolute
                    Truth, for both God and Man are involved in creating and making.
                    Man is created in the image and likeness of God, but unless he
                    becomes conscious of this creation, he is not made to conform to
                    the image and likeness; that is to the male (image) and the
                    female (likeness) of God (Being). God creates in principle, hence
                    it is written in scripture that after God had completed its
                    creation, there was not a man to till the soil; meaning there was
                    no consciousness in keeping with the God-Principle to bring forth
                    from itself what God had created. The soil is consciousness in
                    which the Principles of Being must be cultivated (tilled). How
                    many today till the soil of their consciousness, faithfully and
                    intelligently, so as to bring forth what has been created? How
                    many let the soil bring forth as it will, without any
                    consideration of the relation of sowing and reaping? Man is not
                    yet made, though when he controls thought, feeling, word, and
                    action, so as to conform to inherent Principles of Being, he is
                    in the process of being made. However, he must create himself
                    after the manner of God before the Principles of Being in which
                    is the form to be can bring forth after their kind, and reveal
                    spiritual being.
                </p>

                <p class="text">
                    One can understand man's relation to the
                    creation from the plane of nature. The body of the radish is in
                    the radish seed where the spirit of life is, but it exists only
                    in principle. The seed must be sown in proper soil and under
                    natural conditions to permit the radish to be formed from the
                    mixture of the spirit of the seed with the soil. So it is with
                    man; the body that is to be is one with the Spirit of Life that
                    is within being, but it requires proper soil and natural
                    conditions to permit the form of being to appear. The Spirit of
                    Life, in which is the form of being, must be attained and a
                    spiritual soil be cultivated to permit the body of the Spirit of
                    Life to come forth. The Spirit of Life is Truth, Christ. Man is
                    admonished to &quot;Let Christ be formed in you,&quot; but to
                    attain to the Spirit of Life that is Christ he must die to the
                    spirit of mortal man. The bringing forth of Man is much more
                    complex than bringing forth a radish, though the invisible things
                    are more clearly seen by understanding the things that are.
                </p>

                <p class="text">
                    The Creation of Man is in Spirit, both with God
                    and with Man. Man must duplicate the works of God, by creating or
                    idealizing himself in Spirit as he is in being, before he can be
                    conscious of himself as he is. Man started to do this the last
                    century, declaring himself to be what he could conceive himself
                    to be in being. Whatever he desired to be he declared it as
                    already being, which it is in Principle. The practice and idea
                    brought forth ridicule from many ignorant religionists, but the
                    race was touching a law that was above the material thought of
                    men. It had come to the point of advancement where it could in
                    hope declare its reality in being, taking a stand with God, and
                    declare as being in form what was already being in God (Spirit).
                    This was a mighty step of advancement, though as yet little
                    understood, for with many it was a sort of make-believe, without
                    sufficient faith or will to see it through, and with others, it
                    was a declaring of truth as though the mortal man was to reap the
                    totality of results. It is true that the mortal man was quickened
                    in his forces, and where Wisdom and Love did not or could not
                    rule, the mortal egos became puffed up in their conceits,
                    thinking themselves in mortality to be what they were expected to
                    be in spiritually. In other words, the action of God the last
                    century is not for the purpose of bolstering up the old man, but
                    to make one conscious of the Principles of Being, so that those
                    who have the love of these Principles may become servants of God
                    in the establishment of a New Order of Life and Being, The egos
                    conforming to the Principles of Being, dying to the old man and
                    his deeds as the New Man is made alive, become themselves the
                    fruit of the Principles, and the revelation of the new heavens
                    (spirits) and new earth (bodies) that characterize the spiritual
                    states of being.
                </p>

                <p class="text">
                    The Creation of Man must be in Truth, and it
                    must be scientific, One can declare as already being what one is
                    in Being, for God (Being) has completed the creation, Hence one
                    can say, &quot;I am spiritual being, established now in Life and
                    Truth,&quot; but it is of the spiritual man that the declaration
                    is made. When one has sufficiently idealized oneself in God, as
                    God has idealized man, as Life, Loves Strength, Power, Substance,
                    Understanding, Will, affirming, &quot;I am Life expressing, I am
                    Love expressing,&quot; realizing that God is expressing its
                    Qualities as Man, one becomes conformed to the Creation of God,
                    and permits the Laws of God to open in the consciousness to make
                    man. However, man is made from the dust of the ground; therefore
                    it is necessary that this dust be present to permit the making of
                    Man in God's image and likeness. Dust is substance, when
                    spiritually discerned. The reduction to nothingness of the forces
                    made by mortal mind, and the superseding of them with the
                    knowledge of Truth, establishes the dust of Creative fame, by
                    which man can be fashioned and made. Hence, a dying of the old
                    man is necessary at the same time that the new man is being made
                    alive through idealizations of truth, this permitting the proper
                    negation in which the Divine Will moves to make man.
                </p>

                <p class="text">
                    The Creation of Man means wore than realizing
                    that one is spiritual man, made of Qualities of Being. It is to
                    attain to the consciousness of Being all that God has created.
                    The Being of God is identified in Man as Christ. Christ is the
                    Truth. Hence, the attainment of the Truth is the attainment of
                    consciousness of Being, by which Being may become conscious of
                    Itself as Man, and manifest the reality of Itself. As one
                    realizes the Truth the untruth is also known, this bringing the
                    untruth to cessation in the presence of Truth. The cessation of
                    untruth forms the nothingness of matter, in which are the
                    energies of the forms of untruth that have been, this energy
                    being utilized in the Divine Laws to give form and tangibility to
                    the Qualities of Truth realized. Thus the unforming of the
                    consciousness that has been is one with the forming of the
                    consciousness to be, which is inclusive of spirit and body;
                    though the outworking of the body is in the &quot;greater
                    works&quot; of God, present at the end of mortality (now working
                    out).
                </p>

                <p align="center" class="textsubtitle">
                    The Making of Man
                </p>

                <p class="text">
                    The making of Man is from the Creation. While
                    Man exists in the Creative Principle (God), like a chair exists
                    in the idea of the mind of the inventor, the making of Man is as
                    definite as the making of the chair. The making of man is much
                    more complex than making a chair, for it takes ages to develop
                    consciousness in a kind of a man, called mankind, so as to have
                    faculties of spirit, soul, mind, and body, by which the Creation
                    of Man is accomplished. Man must enter into the creation of
                    himself as he is to be, which is to declare himself as already
                    being what he is to be, before the making of man can be
                    accomplished; comparable to the inventor spending thought in
                    working out the ideas of the form of the invention, completing
                    them on the inner plane, before the actual form can be
                    reproduced. The Laws of Life so operate as to reproduce a kind of
                    a man, living in a world that reflects the realities of Being;
                    though in addition to these reflections there are forces that
                    have sprung up from chaos (like the weeds in the soil) that must
                    also be reckoned with. These are the tares that are gathered by
                    the angels of the same time that the wheat is gathered;
                    comparable to the assembling of the untruths to their appointed
                    end at the time the Truth is gathering its own, preparatory
                    toward working out the Plan of God in Man and for him.
                </p>

                <p class="text">
                    As one begins to realize the Truths of Being,
                    one will begin to not be what he. been, at the same time being
                    what he has not been. All that exists in mortality is opposite to
                    being, therefore the mind of the flesh, which is death, and which
                    is an enemy to Truth or Christ, must be overthrown and overcome
                    with the realizations of Truth, this attending the establishment
                    of the new creature, at the time of the death of the old
                    creature. Every idea of Truth is realized through combating the
                    opposite untruths this involving the form of expression, though
                    that may be on the plane of mind, soul, or will, as well as on
                    the outer bodily plane. Form is expression, and has its ultimate
                    as the body of man. Yet one has form of expressing ideas, of
                    feelings, words, and actions, hence form has its invisible as
                    well as its visible plane. One is expected to become Perfect,
                    even as the Father in Heaven is perfect, meaning that one is
                    expected to conform to the Laws of Being (Father), and to do so
                    must develop the spirit of Perfection. The spirit of Perfection,
                    developed as respecting all forms of expression, permit, the
                    Principle of Perfection to open in man, and to make known its
                    Plan of Being. One could not continue to make mistakes in ideas,
                    words, expression of feelings, will of action, on the outer
                    plane, and at the same time develop the spirit of Perfection; nor
                    could one expressing imperfectly expect to contact the Principle
                    of Perfection, which the Father, or Laws of Being is.
                </p>

                <p class="text">
                    The making of man is the physical expression of
                    the spiritual qualities. Therefore the spiritual, when completed,
                    is the physical, the earth of the heavens, the body of the
                    spirit. The formation of the spirit includes the actual
                    realization of Truth, in which is the form to be. Every idea of
                    Truth contains the form to be, as well as the energy-rate of
                    being; that is, the form to be and the will of Being that brings
                    it forth. The ideas function in consciousness, relating to
                    different parts of the organism, though the body that now is, is
                    not the body that is to be:
                </p>

                <p align="center" class="text">
                    &quot;but a bare grain, it may chance of wheat, or of some other kind;
                    <br>
                    but God giveth it a body even as it pleased him, and to each seed a body of its own.&quot;
                    <br>
                    <br>
                    I Cor. 15:37-38
                </p>

                <p class="text">
                    Each ego is reduced to the primal seed of
                    Being, when divested of mortality, and the Principles of Being
                    fashion the body of this seed, thus, each ego attaining the
                    consciousness of Christ (Truth) becomes a gained Principle of
                    Being (God). Man works with the Principles of Being until he has
                    made the ideal of himself real to himself, but then must become
                    the model by conducting the forces of spirit, soul, mind, and
                    body so as to conform to the Principles of Being. This is the
                    foundation upon which the body is made. When man makes himself in
                    form to be what he has idealized in spirit, spirit and body are
                    united as One, and the One, or Christ, begins to form itself in
                    this oneness, bringing forth spiritual man; the bodily expression
                    of the Spirit.
                </p>

                <p class="text">
                    Spiritual man is a new creature in spirit and
                    in body. Because the body is made to conform to the ideas of
                    Spirit, it will be an organism that cannot suffer pain, nor
                    undergo dissolution. Spiritual man will have continuity of being
                    as God has it without the necessity of birth or death. This will
                    be a fourth-dimensional organism, not a third dimensional, as in
                    the mortal state of being. The spiritual man will have powers of
                    translation, that is, the power of being visible or invisible.
                    The fourth-dimensional is not attainable in the third-dimensional
                    world, except as God works it out in Christ consciousness, to
                    reveal the Principle. The so-called miracles associated with
                    Christ's first coming, and the apparent phenomena present in the
                    second, are not through the mind of man but through the Will of
                    God, the evidence to those who can understand of the Power of God
                    to control the physical world, as well as the world of Spirit;
                    though this is possible only through Man attuned to the Divine
                    Will. Spiritual man, the bodily result of the Creation of Man, is
                    man made in the image and likeness of God and is united
                    male-female type; called virgin in scripture. The male-female
                    type is a united state, the epitome of the United States
                    government that is destined to reveal the spiritual fruits, when
                    it has been divested of its material gains.
                </p>

                <p align="center" class="textsubtitle">
                    Resurrection and Redemption of the Body
                </p>

                <p class="text">
                    The resurrection of the body is the final act
                    of God in making man. It is the ascendancy above the plane of
                    matter of the being of man, but this necessitates an ascension in
                    spirit, before the body can work out. The ascension of the spirit
                    has been taking place the last century, but not many of the
                    advancing egos understand the relation of the physical to the
                    Spirit. Many are called to work out the Plan of God and prepare
                    the way for Christ, but few are chosen to reap the fruits of the
                    outworked Plan. This is because few can make the physical
                    overcoming at this time, by which the body can enter into
                    redemption. The love of the flesh holds man in bondage. Since the
                    love of the flesh is that which produces the mortal body, it
                    follows that the death of the love of the flesh is essential to
                    cause the spiritual body to be formed. Redemption of the body
                    includes the regeneration of the consciousness, a transcending of
                    the love and will of the flesh by which the Love and Will of God
                    may set up their authority in the ego and bring forth the reality
                    of being.
                </p>

                <p class="text">
                    It is Christ that redeems man and brings forth
                    reality of being, but this is not an automatic procedure,
                    Consciousness must be conformed in spirit and love as well as in
                    will, to the desire of Being to manifest its reality, by desiring
                    with the whole heart to let the Divine Will be done in the earth
                    or formed plane, as it is in heaven, the unformed. This is a
                    challenge to the Divine Laws, and when consciousness is
                    sufficiently advanced, the challenge is accepted, this forcing
                    man to clean up himself and to put on the Mind of Christ. The
                    Body Of Christ, the body of reality, is present in the Mind of
                    Christ, even as the body is present in the seed, like the oak
                    tree is present in the acorn. The Seed contains the body to be,
                    and when an ego has gained his seed in Christ, which is to
                    supersede the love of the flesh with the Love of the Lord (Laws)s
                    the real state of being can he brought forth. This is the union
                    of spirit and body, the new heavens and the new earth in which
                    righteousness can dwell. A merger of the male and female
                    potencies of mortality is necessary to bring forth the body of
                    the mortal; even so a merger of the male and the female potencies
                    of the spiritual nature is necessary to give identity to the Seed
                    of Beings and to bring forth the real state of man.
                </p>

                <p align="center" class="textsubtitle">
                    The Law of Immaculate Conception
                </p>

                <p class="text">
                    The Law of Immaculate Conception governs the
                    reproduction of man as God created him to be. This is the Law of
                    Divine Love. Divine Love is gained by dying to the love of the
                    flesh, for the Love of God dies to give rise to the mortal race.
                    Therefore, the death to mortality gives rise to the Love of God
                    in exact scientific order. It is to say that when consciousness
                    no longer desires to be brought forth as a mortal it is willing
                    to die to the laws of fleshly love that bring forth mortality,
                    this death permitting the Love of God to arise in the spirit by
                    which it begins to work out its Plan in fashioning and forming
                    the real man. The Virgin Mary was the first ascent in the race of
                    the Love of God, being in repulsion to the ways of man. She
                    became a Womb-Center into which could be segregated the spiritual
                    qualities progressed in the race prior, and up to her time. This
                    Womb-Center was the physical identity of the Womb-Center existent
                    in God, in which God, the Father, moved to fashion a race and a
                    planet. This is the Mother-Center of God that is one with the
                    Father, yet has distinct function.
                </p>

                <p class="text">
                    The establishment in the race of the
                    Womb-Center as the Virgin Mary, permitted the action of God in
                    the essences of Spirit, besetting within the Virgin Mary the form
                    of this Divine Seed. The Divine Seed is the aggregation of the
                    Qualities of Spirit, in which is the form to be. Hence, it is
                    written that Mary was with child of the Holy Spirit, for she had
                    become the visible Womb-Center into which the Qualities of the
                    Spirit had been aggregated. The betrothal of Mary to Joseph
                    implies that necessary union of the Qualities of the Spirit with
                    the energies of the body to give them tangible form, without
                    which they could not be revealed. The formed man, brought forth
                    from the spiritual union of heaven and earth (Virgin Mary and
                    Joseph) was called Jesus, meaning &quot;God with us&quot; or
                    consciousness in which is the authority of the Divine Will. This
                    form of being became the Type of Man God makes, but many think
                    the Law of Immaculate Conception cannot be set up in them. This
                    is a deception for all must be spiritually born to partake of the
                    Principles of Being. The Law of Immaculate Conception is set up
                    when the Principle of Divine Love is opened in consciousness
                    through dying to the love of the flesh. The aggregation of the
                    Qualities of Being to a central woman or Womb-Center is essential
                    to give spiritual birth to the children of God, the Manchild, to
                    be brought forth at the end of mortality. The Virgin Mary brought
                    forth the individual type that became in function the Father
                    Principle in the earth. Through the dissemination of the
                    Qualities of Being, aggregated in Jesus, in the Law of the Cross,
                    all those who received the Qualities were given the power to
                    become the children of God; but it requires the Universal Mother
                    Function to raise up the virgins, the Manchild, the 144,000
                    children of God and Christ.
                </p>

                <p class="text">
                    The Law of Immaculate Conception operation from
                    the Universal Womb-Center at the end of mortality, opening the
                    &quot;greater works&quot; incidental to bringing forth the bodies
                    of the redeemed egos. It not only deals with the formation of the
                    bodies to he but with the unformation of the bodies that now are.
                    It deals not only with individuals who can receive it, but with
                    the race also, though the racial function is in bringing forth
                    immortality and reducing mortality to naught. It is at the end of
                    mortality that the kingdom of the world becomes the kingdom of
                    God and Christ. The body or old form of being is disturbed at the
                    formation of the new earth or body, this disturbance extending
                    into the domains of the world into which the Powers of God were
                    introduced at the first coming of Christ, through those who
                    warred against the Christ Principle. Since these were soldiers,
                    merchants, governors, lawyers, financiers, ministers, teachers,
                    and other worldly factors, these are the factors that receive the
                    retribution of the Power of God at the second coming of Christ,
                    as their works are still opposed to Christ, the Truth, so long as
                    mortality exists. The universal function of the Law of Immaculate
                    Conception is to gain the energy of form, through dissolution of
                    many formed expressions, by which to form the spiritual world and
                    to manifest it as the next order of progression. This becomes
                    immortality to the race, but the possibility of eternal life to
                    those running ahead of the race.
                </p>

                <p align="center" class="textsubtitle">
                    Spirit and Form
                </p>

                <p class="text">
                    The Spirit and Form are one in Divine Law, but
                    on the plane of materiality they have become separated, and a
                    false spirit has been set up as well as a false form of
                    expression. The false spirit is the lie, the false form the
                    various expressions of untruth. It is the work of everyone
                    expecting the union of the spirit and the body as one, by which
                    Christ, the One of God, can form itself and manifest the reality
                    of being, to create and make a new spirit and a new form. This
                    new spirit is promoted through realizing that the spirit of
                    living as a mortal is opposite to God's Plan; therefore one is
                    willing to die to that spirit and to put on the spirit of Truth.
                    The new form is gained through changing the form of expression,
                    the form of thought, the form of feeling, the form of words and
                    of deeds. The body, as outline of form, is unchangeable, it
                    manifesting the idea of Divine Intelligence, man not being
                    accountable for bodily form. Mortals may think they make bodies
                    by bringing them forth by laws of births but this is a fallacy.
                    The gardener does not make the radishes or the cabbages because
                    he tills the soil. The body of what is to be is present in the
                    seed. The seed of men (race) brings forth the forms of men, and
                    the Law of Birth which is a duplication of the Law of Spiritual
                    Birth that issues from the Creator, causes the body to be formed
                    within the wombs of women. The Law of Spiritual Birth especially
                    operates at the end of mortality from the Universal Womb-Center,
                    the Mothering Principle of God. It includes the expulsion in
                    anguish and pain of the Qualities of Being into the world of
                    effects, though the bodies that are to be are already provided in
                    the Divine Seeds, aggregated as Qualities of Being and Truth in
                    the Womb-Center.
                </p>

                <p class="text">
                    Spirit is the invisible essences before they
                    are realized in the life. Immediately a spiritual quality is
                    realized in the life that has taken on spirit-form. All form is
                    first in Spirit before it is in body, like the form of a radish
                    in a radish seed before the seed is sown in the soil. The
                    formation of the spirit-form is in the Laws of God, the Law of
                    Immaculate Conception operating to bring forth the reality or
                    formed expression. Egos must prepare not only the spirit of what
                    is to be, but the spirit-form. For example, the attainment of a
                    new spirit of Love through dying to the love of the flesh is the
                    gained spirit of Love as it operates to fashion spiritual man.
                    The formation of that spirit as spirit-form is in the overcoming
                    of all forces adverse to love, such as hate, jealousy, malice,
                    revenge, willfulness, deceit, trickery, etc. This overcoming
                    involves living experiences on the plane of form or body, this
                    embodying the spirit as spirit-form. When an ego has become a
                    model man, the Model of God, Christ, can open in the
                    consciousness and cause the spirit and form to bring forth the
                    reality; or cause the Spirit-form to become reality in which is
                    the united spirit and body.
                </p>

                <p align="center" class="textsubtitle">
                    Creating and Making Man a Scientific Principle
                </p>

                <p class="text">
                    The Creating and Making of Man is along exact
                    scientific principles. The parent of Science is Truth. Spiritual
                    Science is the application of the Principles of Truth to
                    consciousness, by which they are proven and the solution of
                    making man is gained. Man is the problem in the Divine Laws,
                    though he is already made in Principle of Creation. Spirit and
                    Body are one in Divine Mind even as are Heaven and Earth. It is
                    only on the plane of the world, where the reflections of the
                    Principle occur, and not the reality, that there is a separation,
                    this resulting in separation of Man and Woman, and necessitating
                    the two comings of Christ, first as Man and last as Woman. It is
                    the union of Man and Woman, worked out at the second coming of
                    Christ, operative since 1922, that gives birth to the proper
                    spirit and proper body, in scientific spiritual laws. While
                    mortals may not understand the detailed science that operates to
                    form mortal bodies within the wombs of woman, they accept the
                    fact that this must be scientifically expressed, else no
                    harmonious form of man would be brought forth. It follows if
                    exact science operates in the formation of the mortal body, an
                    exact science operates in the formation of the spiritual state of
                    being, but spiritual science must be spiritually discerned.
                </p>

                <p align="center" class="text">
                    &quot;The natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God; for they are foolishness unto him;
                    <br>
                    and he cannot know them, because they are spiritually judged.&quot;
                </p>

                <p class="text">
                    The Science of Creating and Making Man is first
                    in Spirit. God is Spirit and man must attain to consciousness of
                    himself, as he is in Spirit, before he has created an ideal of
                    himself as he has been idealized or created. This idealization
                    opened the last century, in keeping with the exact Law of Being;
                    by which man affirmed himself as being what he perceived himself
                    to be in God. When this act of creating is completed, the ego
                    shall have died to the self-spirit and have been opened in the
                    Spirit of God, which is Christ, the Truth. Christ, the Truth,
                    contains the form of Being to be, this form being in the Spirit,
                    (like the radish is in the seed of the radish in spirit-form; the
                    actual form being its manifestation when united with the soil).
                    Christ, the Truth, the Spirit in which is the form to be, must be
                    united with the soil of consciousness in order to reproduce its
                    form of being; thus Truth is lowered to the plane of living only
                    that consciousness may be raised to the plane of being. This
                    lowering primarily operative in the Laws of God was called the
                    &quot;Fall of Man.&quot; This Fall operates in both comings of
                    Christ, a descent of the ascended spirit of Man, as well as the
                    Spirit of God, the two as one forming Jesus Christ, being
                    necessary to carry the Qualities of Being down to the race and
                    all spiritually up to the status of being as God created man to
                    attain. This is not the work of a moment, but occupies the least
                    amount of time, comparable to the greatest amount of time
                    necessary in making mortality.
                </p>

                <p class="text">
                    The making of Man, after the Creating has been
                    completed, deals with the bodily plane. This making has been
                    going on individually since 1912, requiring ten years to produce
                    the spirit-form of Man, this production becoming the center of
                    the Universal making of man that began in 1922. The Universal is
                    inclusive of the forces of the world, for a new planetary
                    condition mast be prepared for a new state of man. A new state of
                    man demands also a new State. Governmental changes the last
                    fourteen years are incidental to the entrance of the Power of God
                    into the world, the power of the world, centered to finances,
                    being especially disordered; though it is used as a means of
                    trying and testing the consciousness of the race. Not anything
                    happens by chance. All is under Law, directly or indirectly. The
                    entrance of the Divine Laws into the affairs of men the last
                    century ultimates in bringing forth what the Spirit has decreed,
                    a new spirit and a new body. This is individually attained as the
                    fruit of the Spirit, as spiritual man, and racially revealed as a
                    re-born race.
                </p>

            </div>

        </div>

    </div>

</div>
